---
layout: post
title:  "Day three"
date:   2022-03-08 22:35:26 +0100
categories: 100DaysOfCode update
---
## #100DaysOfCode

This is getting exciting! I've spend almost two weeks planning and thinking what and how would I do it and now I've finally started it and I've been feeling great about it!

I think I got dragged by my vanity and today I've spend quite time trying to improve my experience on the monorepo and as a result I'm not sure yet about NPM Workspaces and for now, it seems that Lerna is enough to get chores done.

To be fair with me, I didn't spend all the time polishing folders and npm scripts.
I've also started the first service called `content-emitter` and this service will emit events to a _kafka_ topic with ids of contents that the next service, the one consuming these events, will use to fetch the data to be indexed.
For this service, and most likely for all the other ones to come, I have decided to use _fastify_ instead of _expressjs_ because it seems to be lighter to run and it has a slightly different philosophy based on plugins and I wanted to go a bit out of my box with that. (I will probably write a tutorial about fastify)

### Progress

I started the [content-emitter](https://github.com/eduronqui/content-monorepo/tree/main/services/content-emitter) service and for now it only has a couple of healthcheck endpoints.
The next steps includes more focus on tests and integrate it towards _kafka_.

TIL: When you run a npm command using `lerna run` i.e. `lerna run build` it will not output the logs to _stdout_, so it's a good idea to add `--stream` to it.

TIL2: Fastify uses hooks in a very elegant way that makes taking actions on different moments of the request lifecycle much easier than having to be mindful of middleware order.

### More resources

* [Fastify](https://github.com/fastify/fastify)
